like most
i wanted to start by just saying thank
you to
everyone in the ecosystem and the
protocol labs and
ipfs teams specifically but also
the other presenters and and and
companies building
uh we entered this ecosystem
in march when we launched fleeq uh
we have uh thousands of sites now
that are deployed through fleeq onto
ipfs
and uh one interesting takeaway is that
more than 10 of all sites use ens
and so even just with uh
like adding features like that
kind of our theme is you know uh people
are interested in these technologies
how can we just make really good user
experiences
uh and products that make that
really easy to do and so that was one
good example
of what we're trying to double down on
is just how can we
make really good user experiences to
like to
develop products that get these
technologies into users hands
um super seamlessly and almost in a
abstracted way and so we did the fleeq
launch
in uh in march we focused on that
uh for uh several months
and then we announced uh our um
intentions to build space and with that
we released
the open source space daemon which was
the back end
that uh we used to build the space app
which is more of a
a consumer focused uh storage product
built on ipfs and textile to start um
with some other protocols
um ethereum and foul coin coming down
the road
and again similar to fleek just creating
a really good user experience
very familiar with what people are used
to but with these technologies under the
hood
so space will launch the first week of
january publicly
we really did focus on the user
experience and making sure that it felt
like a web 2 app and experience but even
better
so we feel pretty proud about what we've
accomplished and
the tech stack we've built it on top of
especially textile and the ipfs work so
it was great to
understand the new things in ipfs and
that roadmap because where we are going
is essentially next year is really
focused on two things one is like
the space daemon we have a space sdk
we're about to drop
in two weeks that's essentially like an
upgraded version of the space stamen
everything is broken out into different
modules so it's not all packaged into
one thing it's much
much easier to work with but you know we
compare ourselves a lot on the fleek
side to
like netlify and they pioneered the jam
stack
and basically like with space
we view it as kind of an extension of
the jam stack
so we're obviously have to call it space
jam
but essentially it's a way to add web3
functionality to jam stack apps
and so with space sdk space daemon
space.js they're
just these libraries that enable people
to easily package
or add functionality like you know
peer-to-peer
or you know ethereum while it's for
authentication or all the cool things
you could do with textile
into these like libraries that you could
add to a gatsby site or different site
but part of where we're going and where
space and fleek cross
is the main big thing we're working on
for next year is
with fleek v1 the main uh i would say
like thing that's not great about it is
it's still
centralized to us and our ipfs
infrastructure
so with space we have a browser and a
desktop app the desktop app has an ipfs
node
that lives on the user's machine and so
where we're really trying to move with
all this space sdk
these these libraries that make it easy
to integrate these
these functionalities and now with ipfs
becoming more natively integrated in
browsers and things like that
the idea is to start with the desktop
app
as a way to for the redundancy layer
of with fleek hosting we use a cdn to
make it performant
and then our own ipfs nodes under the
hood so now with space
what we're essentially going to enable
is that an
app that's hosted through fleek will be
able to
like have the option to do a community
hosted
uh version where the sites especially if
they use ens but even if they don't
uh users could through the space desktop
app
search for dapps that they might want to
help power
or host and
we would essentially handle the
automatic updating of the pins every
time there's a new deployment
but it's a step in the right direction
of like what netlify is really pioneered
is the concept of like
not cdn but adn application delivery
network where
instead of just putting content on the
edge you put the entire application
and so where we're trying to go with
things is really where we see the
evolution of that which is
user delivery networks where not only
are you taking advantage of
edge infrastructure that's either run by
a company like cloudflare or netlify or
a network
like filecoin um or
you know the retrieval miner layer on
top
but also including users in that
sort of redundancy and hosting layer but
also
eventually in the future in the delivery
layer and so
that's why yeah like i was saying these
updates to ipfs
making them you know work more natively
in browsers
having the way to automate the pinning
to like
other uh data redundancy layers from the
browser
that's all super cool to start it would
just be with users
in the desktop app with those local ipfs
nodes
adding to the redundancy and over time
as we figure out how to
handle them doing the delivery and stuff
like that which
you know we're we're kind of in the same
boat as the community with just seeing
how that develops what's possible and
where it makes sense
over time that's the idea is we'll be
able to effectively
not only include users in the redundancy
aspect of hosting a site
and helping power adapt to really make
like
decentralized hosting and
community-powered hosting
but then eventually you know working
towards how do we also
enable more and more of this to be
delivered by
these users and not so much going
through like http
and through the cdn so that's kind of
what's on our roadmap for 2021.
we did hire a full-time marketer who's
recently you can see we've been making
some more noise sharing what we're doing
so you could expect a lot more of that
but yeah that's kind of what we're
focused on again big thank you
for uh everyone uh
it's an awesome ecosystem thank you
again to protocol labs
and uh yeah we're excited for the deweb
to take the main narrative in web 3
in 2021